The beauty of wireless networks is that they are so wonderfully convenient. In a world of mobile devices, we can go anywhere and get Internet access - the airport, hotels, sports venues, and coffee shops. The problem is that this convenience comes at a cost. And information you send through a wireless network can potentially be accessed by someone else.

There are several ways to protect yourself when using wifi. First, try to only use secure wireless access points. Secure in this usage simply means that you have to log in in order to use the network and that traffic flowing across the network is encrypted. Now, one thing to understand it that there are several different ways to secure a wireless hotspot and they do not offer the same levels of protection. The two primary types of encryption are Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) and Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP). If you are setting up a home network, be sure to select WPA2 if it is available because it offers the strongest level of protection. WEP is an older technology and should be avoided when possible.

When you are on a public network, you should take further steps to protect yourself - especially when you are on open, unencrypted wifi. First, NEVER send personal information across the Internet. Open wifi allows hackers to easily collect the information going back and forth and your information will be compromised. If you really need to do online shopping or log in to your bank account, make absolutely sure that you are on a secure wireless network. If you have to use an unsecured network, make sure you use their secure website.

To see if a website is encrypted, look for the little lock icon near the URL and also look for the https:// before the address. The "s" in https stands for secure and all traffic back and forth to this particular site will be encrypted. Also, make sure that every page that you visit on the site is encrypted. Unfortunately, some sites only encrypt the login page and that leaves vulnerabilities that can be exploited on the other pages.

Up to this point, we've been talking about using a web browser on a wifi network. But mobile apps on your phone pose another challenge. In a web browser, you can see if a website is encrypted or not. But when you use an app, there's no good way to see if the traffic is encrypted as the app communicates. This means that you should never use apps that might send sensitive traffic because that traffic could be intercepted over an unsecured wifi connection. In cases where you have to use these apps in public, it's better to use your phone's data network.

Hopefully, you are now all terrified to ever use wifi in public at this point and long for the simpler days of ignorant bliss. Wouldn't it be amazing
